I flew Air India for the first time in 10 years, and it was everything I expected it to be - unfortunately, not in the positive sense.

This was a last minute booking; a friend had a quick turnaround from engagement to wedding and a group of us decided to travel from London to a non-metro city in Maharashtra on short(ish) notice. Usually, I would stick to one of the private carriers - of course, Air India is also private nowadays but the gulf between them and the rest remains large. My family are long time users of Jet Airways (9W 117/118 for the LHR <-> BOM sector, anyone remember those?), and although there hasn't been a stable replacement since Jet went out of business, we usually round robin between Virgin, Vistara & Emirates. British Airways is a last resort, I best not get into a tangent on the cost and service of that airline!

The aformentioned journey was in December, during the peak travel window and on short notice - beggars can't be chosers so I picked Air India, connecting via Delhi. 20 hours before we were due to travel, we get an email from Air India:
> Your flight has been rescheduled and will now depart at 5pm. Your new layover time is **-5 minutes**

Yes I'm not making this up - a layover of _minus_ five minutes. How such an email is allowed to go out to customers, I have no idea

That was the end of the working day before I was due to fly out. Instead of wrapping up, writing my handover, and relaxing, I went into planning overdrive, looking for alternate options. We called the airline helpline directly who were as useful as a chocolate teapot. They _acknowledged_ the -5min layover, claiming there were no other options available and offering to cancel the entire trip for a full refund. In parallel, I get another email from Air India rebooking my connecting flight for the following day. My original layover of 3hrs, which had subsequently become -5min, was now 21hrs 🤯

Having seen the follow up email, I call them back to be told the booking is now "valid" since they've provided an alternate with a long enough layover. The refund was off the table, completely ignoring that I would arrive _after_ the wedding if I took the rearranged flights. 

Thankfully, I had another option - I called my booking agent, [booking.com](https://www.booking.com/). They were much more sensible and immediately offered to rebook us on an _earlier_ flight out of London, giving us enough time to make the original connection. Why Air India didn't suggest this directly is baffling, but crisis averted - big shoutout to the booking.com support team for being calm and helpful here!

We arrived at the airport and went through the motions, boarding the aircraft an hour before scheduled departure as is standard for long haul flights. As we taxied to the runway, my friends and I were just glad to put the mess behind us and catch-up on sleep (sorting flight bookings till midnight, then finalising packing and getting to the airport at 6am wasn't the chill evening we had envisioned!). Cue the drama

> We are sorry to inform you there is a technical glitch and we will be returning to the gate

For the next _two_ hours, the pilot proceeded to give an update every 15min with the _exact_ same information - "we have rebooted the system but it hasn't worked". As much as 'turn it off and on again' is good IT advice, I really wasn't expecting that to work on an A320. Us passengers continued to sit on the tarmac, getting increasingly nervous, frustrated and hungry - I'm sure many would have skipped breakfast to make the 8am flight and were hoping to be enjoying the customary Idli or Upma by 11am. Eventually, having gone through 6-7 cycles of "rebooting", the pilot informed us the issue was fixed - or at least mitigated sufficiently for us to take off 🎉

The flight started poorly - within 10min, water started dripping from the overhead storage on my friend seated next to me. Again, it's hard to make this up. Partly because we were zonked out, partly because we didn't think it would have helped, we didn't even bother raising this to the air stewards. Then, about 30min in, we were told the in-flight entertainment wasn't working as a side effect of the rebooting cycles. Chinese torture with no TV to take our mind off it - it was going to be a long nine hours!

The rest of the flight was, thankfully, uneventful. The food was average (a once selling point of Air India) and although I didn't use the toilets, my neighbour highly recommended holding it in for 9hrs instead of suffering through a visit. We finally landed in Delhi, connecting through without _much_ of a hitch* to arrive at our final destination. (*honestly, the gate change and flight status disappearing from airport screens for our connecting flight was such a minor problem, I thought it wasn't worth mentioning - but then what's a story without the details).

 We had landed at 7am, in good time to reach the hotel and get cleaned up for a 12pm start of the festivities (Haldi function first, if you were wondering). The final problem? A wet suitcase with the water seeping through the top, likely because it had been left out in the London rain while waiting to be loaded. I had the bright idea of planning ahead and putting all my wedding clothes at the top so I could quickly change into them on landing. That backfired... 😕 After the hiccups of the prior 24hrs, I ended up smartly dressed in an ironed albeit slightly damp kurta, on time and ready to party if a little tired. I think that's a win!

What an adventure! Air India really need to up their game if they want to stay competitive in the global airline industry. The takeover by Tata and merger with Singapore Airlines should provide the much needed impetus - I look forward to flying with them in another 10 years :)
